README.md, before:

# yt-helper

Welcome to `yt-helper`, a simple YouTube helper tool for downloading from playlists and channels.  
The main purpose is make the videos I want to watch available to network shares, media servers, etc, as seamlessly as possible.  

## Links

DESCRIPTION|LINK
:---|:---
Source Code|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/GioF71/yt-helper)
Docker Images|[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/giof71/yt-helper)

## References

This project relies on the following projects:

PROJECT|LINK
:---|:---
yt-dlp|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)
pytube|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/pytube/pytube)
python-slugify|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/un33k/python-slugify)

## Description

This is a simple video downloader, it will rely on pytube and yt-dlp (see [References](#references) for details).  
By defaults, it will monitor the provided playlists and try to download new videos every 300 seconds.  
Already downloaded videos will not be downloaded again.  

## Installation

The preferred way to install the application is via docker. See the [Examples](#examples) section.  
Of course, you can start the python application `yt-helper.py` directly, and/or create a systemd service if you prefer to do so.

## Configuration

At the current stage of development, the configuration is done using environment variables and volumes using Docker.  

### Environment Variables

VARIABLE|DESCRIPTION
:---|:---
OUTPUT_PATH|Output directory, it is set to `/downloads` if you use docker. Otherwise, be sure to set to an appropriate path
DB_FILE|Database location, it is set to `/db/yt.db` if you use docker. Otherwise, be sure to set to an appropriate path
PUID|User id of the user which will run the application, defaults to `1000`
PGID|Group id of the user which will run the application, defaults to `1000`
PLAYLIST_LIST|Comma separated list of the ids of the playlists (which must be public) to be monitored
CHANNEL_NAME_LIST|Comma separated list of the names of the channels to be monitored
MAX_RESOLUTION|Max resolution used for download, defaults to `1080`
FILE_NAME_TEMPLATE|Video file name naming template, defaults to `%(uploader)s - %(upload_date>%Y-%m-%d)s - %(title)s [%(id)s].%(ext)s`
ENABLE_LOOP|Enable loop instead of exiting after the first cycle, defaults to `1`
LOOP_WAIT_SEC|Loop wait time between iterations, in seconds, defaults to `300`
OUTPUT_FORMAT|Output format of the downloaded file, defaults to `mkv` (can be overriden at playlist or channel level)
SLUGIFY|Transforms the file name to slugified version, defaults to `0`
PRINTABLE|Process the filename in order to strip some special characters and reduce potential issues with file name restrictions
DIRECTORY_PER_CHANNEL|If set to `1`, a directory will be created with the name of channel/uploader, defaults to `0`

Channels do not work (at least before the latest pytube update, which I have not tried yet), because the application always gets an empty list when trying to retrieve the list of video urls.

#### Playlist format

A playlist can be provided as is (just the id), or along with a colon followed by a date (`YYYY-mm-dd` format) which will be used as the lower limit for the upload date of the videos.  
Example:  

`PLAYLIST_LIST=PL12345,PL23456`

or  

`PLAYLIST_LIST=PL12345:2023-08-01,PL23456`

When a date is specified, only videos published after, and including, the specified date (August 1st 2023 in the example) will be processed for the playlist with id `PL12345`.  
Alternatively, we can use a list of dictionaries, using the separator ";" between playlist property pairs and the separator "=" as the assignment operator. The previous example would become:

`PLAYLIST_LIST=id=PL12345;subscription_start=2023-08-01,id=PL23456`

This adds the flexibility to specify different properties for each playlist, for future use. 

##### Playlist field keys:

KEY|DESCRIPTION
:---|:---
id|Playlist id (mandatory)
subscription_start|The minimum date for download (optional)
output_format|The desired output format for the playlist (optional)

#### Channel name format

The considerations made for [Playlist Format](#playlist-format) apply, just replace the playlist id with the channel name.

##### Channel by name field keys:

KEY|DESCRIPTION
:---|:---
name|Channel name (mandatory)
subscription_start|The minimum date for download (optional)

#### Volumes

VOLUME|DESCRIPTION
:---|:--
/db|Location for the sqlite database (will be named `yt.db`)
/downloads|Location for the downloaded files

### Examples

Here is a simple docker compose file. The commented variables are optional.  
You will need to replace `PLxx1`, `PLxx2`, `PLxx3` as well as the channel name(s) with your playlists and/or channel names.  

```text
---
version: '3'

services:
  yt-helper:
    container_name: yt-helper
    image: giof71/yt-helper:latest
    volumes:
      - ./db:/db
      - ./downloads:/downloads
    environment:
      - TZ=Europe/Rome
      #- PUID=1000
      #- PGID=1000
      #- LOOP_WAIT_SEC=300
      #- FILE_NAME_TEMPLATE=%(uploader)s - %(upload_date>%Y-%m-%d)s - %(title)s [%(id)s].%(ext)s
      #- DIRECTORY_PER_CHANNEL=0
      - PLAYLIST_LIST=PLxx1,PLxx2,PLxx3
      - CHANNEL_NAME_LIST=ANiceChannel:2023-07-27
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Commit message:

add support for full date format

README.md, after:

# yt-helper

Welcome to `yt-helper`, a simple YouTube helper tool for downloading from playlists and channels.  
The main purpose is make the videos I want to watch available to network shares, media servers, etc, as seamlessly as possible.  

## Links

DESCRIPTION|LINK
:---|:---
Source Code|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/GioF71/yt-helper)
Docker Images|[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/giof71/yt-helper)

## References

This project relies on the following projects:

PROJECT|LINK
:---|:---
yt-dlp|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)
pytube|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/pytube/pytube)
python-slugify|[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/un33k/python-slugify)

## Description

This is a simple video downloader, it will rely on pytube and yt-dlp (see [References](#references) for details).  
By defaults, it will monitor the provided playlists and try to download new videos every 300 seconds.  
Already downloaded videos will not be downloaded again.  

## Installation

The preferred way to install the application is via docker. See the [Examples](#examples) section.  
Of course, you can start the python application `yt-helper.py` directly, and/or create a systemd service if you prefer to do so.

## Configuration

At the current stage of development, the configuration is done using environment variables and volumes using Docker.  

### Environment Variables

VARIABLE|DESCRIPTION
:---|:---
OUTPUT_PATH|Output directory, it is set to `/downloads` if you use docker. Otherwise, be sure to set to an appropriate path
DB_FILE|Database location, it is set to `/db/yt.db` if you use docker. Otherwise, be sure to set to an appropriate path
PUID|User id of the user which will run the application, defaults to `1000`
PGID|Group id of the user which will run the application, defaults to `1000`
PLAYLIST_LIST|Comma separated list of the ids of the playlists (which must be public) to be monitored
CHANNEL_NAME_LIST|Comma separated list of the names of the channels to be monitored
MAX_RESOLUTION|Max resolution used for download, defaults to `1080`
FILE_NAME_TEMPLATE|Video file name naming template, defaults to `%(uploader)s - %(upload_date>%Y-%m-%d)s - %(title)s [%(id)s].%(ext)s`
ENABLE_LOOP|Enable loop instead of exiting after the first cycle, defaults to `1`
LOOP_WAIT_SEC|Loop wait time between iterations, in seconds, defaults to `300`
OUTPUT_FORMAT|Output format of the downloaded file, defaults to `mkv` (can be overriden at playlist or channel level)
SLUGIFY|Transforms the file name to slugified version, defaults to `0`
PRINTABLE|Process the filename in order to strip some special characters and reduce potential issues with file name restrictions
DIRECTORY_PER_CHANNEL|If set to `1`, a directory will be created with the name of channel/uploader, defaults to `0`
FULL_DATE_FORMAT|If set to `1`, the date format in metadata will be `yyyy-mm-dd` instead of `yyyy`, defaults to `0`

Channels do not currently work (at least before the latest pytube update, which I have not tried yet), because the application always gets an empty list when trying to retrieve the list of video urls.

#### Playlist format

A playlist can be provided as is (just the id), or along with a colon followed by a date (`YYYY-mm-dd` format) which will be used as the lower limit for the upload date of the videos.  
Example:  

`PLAYLIST_LIST=PL12345,PL23456`

or  

`PLAYLIST_LIST=PL12345:2023-08-01,PL23456`

When a date is specified, only videos published after, and including, the specified date (August 1st 2023 in the example) will be processed for the playlist with id `PL12345`.  
Alternatively, we can use a list of dictionaries, using the separator ";" between playlist property pairs and the separator "=" as the assignment operator. The previous example would become:

`PLAYLIST_LIST=id=PL12345;subscription_start=2023-08-01,id=PL23456`

This adds the flexibility to specify different properties for each playlist, for future use. 

##### Playlist field keys:

KEY|DESCRIPTION
:---|:---
id|Playlist id (mandatory)
subscription_start|The minimum date for download (optional)
output_format|The desired output format for the playlist (optional)

#### Channel name format

The considerations made for [Playlist Format](#playlist-format) apply, just replace the playlist id with the channel name.

##### Channel by name field keys:

KEY|DESCRIPTION
:---|:---
name|Channel name (mandatory)
subscription_start|The minimum date for download (optional)

#### Volumes

VOLUME|DESCRIPTION
:---|:--
/db|Location for the sqlite database (will be named `yt.db`)
/downloads|Location for the downloaded files

### Examples

Here is a simple docker compose file. The commented variables are optional.  
You will need to replace `PLxx1`, `PLxx2`, `PLxx3` as well as the channel name(s) with your playlists and/or channel names.  

```text
---
version: '3'

services:
  yt-helper:
    container_name: yt-helper
    image: giof71/yt-helper:latest
    volumes:
      - ./db:/db
      - ./downloads:/downloads
    environment:
      - TZ=Europe/Rome
      #- PUID=1000
      #- PGID=1000
      #- LOOP_WAIT_SEC=300
      #- FILE_NAME_TEMPLATE=%(uploader)s - %(upload_date>%Y-%m-%d)s - %(title)s [%(id)s].%(ext)s
      #- DIRECTORY_PER_CHANNEL=0
      - PLAYLIST_LIST=PLxx1,PLxx2,PLxx3
      - CHANNEL_NAME_LIST=ANiceChannel:2023-07-27
    restart: unless-stopped
```
